Task Fourteen - Steps for Setting Up a Web Server on cloud VM
Description :
This repository contains steps to set up a web server on a Virtual Machine hosted over a cloud server.

1. Login to Your Cloud VM via SSH from Kali Linux
Open your Kali Linux terminal.
Use the following SSH command to log in to the VM
       <ssh -i /path to private_key> username@<your-vm-public-ip>
Capture a screenshot showing successful SSH login.

2. Clone the Repo from Taskten (HTML Page)
After logging into the VM, clone your tasktwelve repository from GitHub
     git clone https://github.com/yourusername/tasktwelve.git

3. Copy the Cloned Files to Apache Web Server Root Directory
Copy the HTML and related files from the cloned tasktwelve folder to the root directory of the Apache web server
          sudo cp -r taskten/* /var/www/html/

4. Start the Apache Web Server
Ensure apache is installed or else install using
     sudo apt install apache2
Start the Apache web server on the VM:
       sudo systemctl start apache2
Ensure the web server is running by checking its status:
       sudo systemctl status apache2

5. Access the Web Page via Local Browser
Open a web browser on your local machine and enter the public IP of your cloud VM
         http://<your-vm-public-ip>
Capture a screenshot of the webpage being served from the cloud VM.

6. Install PHP and MySQL on the VM
If PHP and MySQL are not already installed, use the following commands to install them.

Install PHP

     sudo apt update

     sudo apt install php libapache2-mod-php

Install MySQL

     sudo apt install mysql-server

7. Start MySQL Server and Login
Start the MySQL service

     sudo systemctl start MySQL

Login to MySQL as the root user

     sudo mysql -u root -p

8. Create Database, Table, and User
Inside the MySQL shell, create a database, table, and user using the following commands

Create a Database

  CREATE DATABASE userdb;

  USE userdb;

Create a Users Table

  CREATE TABLE users ( id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY, username VARCHAR(50), email VARCHAR(100), password VARCHAR(255) );  
Take a screenshot showing the creation of the database, table, and user in MySQL.

9. Create/Register a User via PHP Script
Write or copy a PHP registration script that allows users to register their details (username, email, password) and stores them in the users table. To avoid unintended errors ensure that the right username, database name is entered.
Ensure the registration form connects to the MySQL database and inserts data correctly.
Test the registration page by accessing it from your browser
            http://<your-vm-public-ip>/register.php
10. Login as the Created User
After registering a new user, log in using the same credentials.
Take a screenshot showing the successful login page.
11. Share the Public IP of Your Web Server
Share your web server’s public IP with friends or colleagues to verify if they can access the registration and login pages.
12. Public IP
The public ip of my VM
98.70.101.125
